# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`gpfs`](#gpfs): NCSA Spectrum Scale Puppet Module (formerly GPFS)    @summary   This module will install the latest version of GPFS for the specified   yum r
* [`gpfs::add_client`](#gpfs--add_client): Add this node to the gpfs cluster
* [`gpfs::bindmounts`](#gpfs--bindmounts): Create bindmounts as specified in Hiera
* [`gpfs::cron`](#gpfs--cron): Install cron jobs for:    - Exempt gpfs from linux kernel OOM killer    - (OPTIONAL) accept license for all nodes in cluster  Parameters:
* [`gpfs::firewall`](#gpfs--firewall)
* [`gpfs::health`](#gpfs--health): Congifure GPFS Health Checks Via Telegraf
* [`gpfs::install`](#gpfs--install): Manage a gpfs yum repo (optional) & Install GPFS
* [`gpfs::nativemounts`](#gpfs--nativemounts): Mount all specified GPFS filesystems
* [`gpfs::quota`](#gpfs--quota): Override native gpfs quota command with a script that will
invoke a custom quota command on the gpfs server specified by
$host on $port.
* [`gpfs::startup`](#gpfs--startup): Start GPFS and wait for verification that it started successfully

### Defined types

* [`gpfs::bindmount`](#gpfs--bindmount): Defined type, not intended to be invoked directly, but rather via
gpfs::bindmounts. The name of the resource is the target mountpath.
* [`gpfs::nativemount`](#gpfs--nativemount): Create mount options file, populated with specified options
Ensure parent (mountpoint) directory exists
Ensure the filesystem is mounted
Name: gpfs filesystem name

## Classes

### <a name="gpfs"></a>`gpfs`

NCSA Spectrum Scale Puppet Module (formerly GPFS)

  @summary
  This module will install the latest version of GPFS for the specified
  yum repository.  GPFS version is thus controlled by yumrepo_baseurl.

  Parameters:

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include gpfs
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs` class:

* [`resource_defaults`](#-gpfs--resource_defaults)

##### <a name="-gpfs--resource_defaults"></a>`resource_defaults`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Hash[String[1], Data, 1], 1]`

OPTIONAL - default values set in module hiera

### <a name="gpfs--add_client"></a>`gpfs::add_client`

Add this node to the gpfs cluster

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::add_client` class:

* [`interface`](#-gpfs--add_client--interface)
* [`master_server`](#-gpfs--add_client--master_server)
* [`mmsdrfs`](#-gpfs--add_client--mmsdrfs)
* [`nodeclasses`](#-gpfs--add_client--nodeclasses)
* [`pagepool`](#-gpfs--add_client--pagepool)
* [`pagepool_max_ram_percent`](#-gpfs--add_client--pagepool_max_ram_percent)
* [`script_tgt_fn`](#-gpfs--add_client--script_tgt_fn)
* [`ssh_private_key_contents`](#-gpfs--add_client--ssh_private_key_contents)
* [`ssh_private_key_path`](#-gpfs--add_client--ssh_private_key_path)
* [`ssh_public_key_contents`](#-gpfs--add_client--ssh_public_key_contents)
* [`ssh_public_key_type`](#-gpfs--add_client--ssh_public_key_type)

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--interface"></a>`interface`

Data type: `String`

OPTIONAL - Name of network interface whose IP will be used to register with GPFS.
If undefined with add with default (accoring to Puppet) IP address.

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--master_server"></a>`master_server`

Data type: `String[1]`

FQDN of gpfs master server

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--mmsdrfs"></a>`mmsdrfs`

Data type: `String[1]`

OPTIONAL - path to mmsdrfs command default set in module hiera

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--nodeclasses"></a>`nodeclasses`

Data type: `Array`

OPTIONAL - list of nodeclasses to which this node should be added master_server

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--pagepool"></a>`pagepool`

Data type: `String`

OPTIONAL - Amount of RAM to dedicate to gpfs pagepool.
Format: integer number followed by one of K, M, or G.

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--pagepool_max_ram_percent"></a>`pagepool_max_ram_percent`

Data type: `Integer`

OPTIONAL - Max percent of RAM allowed for gpfs pagepool.
Must be an integer between 10 and 90.

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--script_tgt_fn"></a>`script_tgt_fn`

Data type: `String[1]`

OPTIONAL - where to store the "add_client" bash script default set in module hiera

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--ssh_private_key_contents"></a>`ssh_private_key_contents`

Data type: `String[1]`

private ssh key contents to enable ssh into master_server

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--ssh_private_key_path"></a>`ssh_private_key_path`

Data type: `String[1]`

OPTIONAL - path to store the gpfs private key (default set in module hiera)

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--ssh_public_key_contents"></a>`ssh_public_key_contents`

Data type: `String[1]`

public ssh key contents to enable ssh into master_server

##### <a name="-gpfs--add_client--ssh_public_key_type"></a>`ssh_public_key_type`

Data type: `String[1]`

public ssh key type, e.g. 'rsa'

### <a name="gpfs--bindmounts"></a>`gpfs::bindmounts`

Create bindmounts as specified in Hiera

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
This class is already included by gpfs::init, so just need to specify,
in hiera, the list of bindmounts and associated data.
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::bindmounts` class:

* [`mountmap`](#-gpfs--bindmounts--mountmap)

##### <a name="-gpfs--bindmounts--mountmap"></a>`mountmap`

Data type: `Hash`

HIERA
---
gpfs::bindmounts::mountmap:
    /scratch:
        opts: nosuid
        src_path:  /lsst/scratch
        src_mountpoint: /lsst

Default value: `{}`

### <a name="gpfs--cron"></a>`gpfs::cron`

Install cron jobs for:
   - Exempt gpfs from linux kernel OOM killer
   - (OPTIONAL) accept license for all nodes in cluster

Parameters:

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::cron` class:

* [`accept_license`](#-gpfs--cron--accept_license)

##### <a name="-gpfs--cron--accept_license"></a>`accept_license`

Data type: `Boolean`

Install cron script to auto accept license

### <a name="gpfs--firewall"></a>`gpfs::firewall`

The gpfs::firewall class.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::firewall` class:

* [`allow_from`](#-gpfs--firewall--allow_from)

##### <a name="-gpfs--firewall--allow_from"></a>`allow_from`

Data type: `Array[String[1], 1]`

Allow incoming traffic from these sources on GPFS specific tcp
ports.

### <a name="gpfs--health"></a>`gpfs::health`

Congifure GPFS Health Checks Via Telegraf

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include gpfs::health
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::health` class:

* [`enabled`](#-gpfs--health--enabled)
* [`file_base_name`](#-gpfs--health--file_base_name)
* [`telegraf_cfg`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_cfg)
* [`telegraf_script_cfg_fs`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_fs)
* [`telegraf_script_cfg_paths`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_paths)
* [`telegraf_script_cfg_files`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_files)
* [`telegraf_script_cfg_filestat`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_filestat)
* [`telegraf_ss_client_health`](#-gpfs--health--telegraf_ss_client_health)
* [`sudo_cfg`](#-gpfs--health--sudo_cfg)

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--enabled"></a>`enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable or disable this health check

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--file_base_name"></a>`file_base_name`

Data type: `String`

Basename of files used by the health check

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_cfg"></a>`telegraf_cfg`

Data type: `Hash`

Hash of key:value pairs passed to telegraf::input as options

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_fs"></a>`telegraf_script_cfg_fs`

Data type: `String`

Optional GPFS filesystems parameter.
This is a space separated list of file system device names according to gpfs.
If empty will lookup from `gpfs::nativemounts::mountmap` paramter.

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_paths"></a>`telegraf_script_cfg_paths`

Data type: `String`

Optional GPFS paths parameter.
This is a space separated list of paths that the ls check should run on.
If empty will lookup from `gpfs::bindmounts::mountmap` paramter.

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_files"></a>`telegraf_script_cfg_files`

Data type: `String`

Optional GPFS files parameter.
This is a space separated list of files the stat check should run on.
If empty will lookup paths from `gpfs::nativemounts::mountmap` paramter and
use files from `telegraf_script_cfg_filestat` paramter.

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_script_cfg_filestat"></a>`telegraf_script_cfg_filestat`

Data type: `String`

Filename (or directory) to stat for file health checks

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--telegraf_ss_client_health"></a>`telegraf_ss_client_health`

Specifies the sudo command for telegraf to run the mmdiag command on the host

##### <a name="-gpfs--health--sudo_cfg"></a>`sudo_cfg`

Data type: `String`



### <a name="gpfs--install"></a>`gpfs::install`

Manage a gpfs yum repo (optional) & Install GPFS

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::install` class:

* [`yumrepo`](#-gpfs--install--yumrepo)
* [`pkg_list`](#-gpfs--install--pkg_list)

##### <a name="-gpfs--install--yumrepo"></a>`yumrepo`

Data type: `Hash`

Hash of yumrepo parameters in form of yumrepo parameters

##### <a name="-gpfs--install--pkg_list"></a>`pkg_list`

Data type: `Array[String[1], 1]`

OPTIONAL - List of dependent OS packages to install. Default value defined
in module hiera.

### <a name="gpfs--nativemounts"></a>`gpfs::nativemounts`

Mount all specified GPFS filesystems

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
This class is already included from gpfs::init, so just need to
specify, in hiera, which filesystems to mount
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::nativemounts` class:

* [`mountmap`](#-gpfs--nativemounts--mountmap)

##### <a name="-gpfs--nativemounts--mountmap"></a>`mountmap`

Data type: `Hash`

HIERA
---
gpfs::nativemounts::mountmap:
    lsst:
        opts: ro

Default value: `{}`

### <a name="gpfs--quota"></a>`gpfs::quota`

NCSA custom quota command

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::quota` class:

* [`host`](#-gpfs--quota--host)
* [`port`](#-gpfs--quota--port)

##### <a name="-gpfs--quota--host"></a>`host`

Data type: `String[1]`

Host that should be used for custom quota command.

##### <a name="-gpfs--quota--port"></a>`port`

Data type: `Integer[1, 65535]`

Port on the custom quota host.

### <a name="gpfs--startup"></a>`gpfs::startup`

Start GPFS and wait for verification that it started successfully

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::startup` class:

* [`cmds`](#-gpfs--startup--cmds)
* [`no_gpfs_file`](#-gpfs--startup--no_gpfs_file)

##### <a name="-gpfs--startup--cmds"></a>`cmds`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], String[1], 2, 2]`

OPTIONAL - default values set in module hiera

##### <a name="-gpfs--startup--no_gpfs_file"></a>`no_gpfs_file`

Data type: `String`

File path of lock file to prevent GPFS from starting

## Defined types

### <a name="gpfs--bindmount"></a>`gpfs::bindmount`

Create a bindmount

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::bindmount` defined type:

* [`src_path`](#-gpfs--bindmount--src_path)
* [`src_mountpoint`](#-gpfs--bindmount--src_mountpoint)
* [`opts`](#-gpfs--bindmount--opts)

##### <a name="-gpfs--bindmount--src_path"></a>`src_path`

Data type: `String[1]`

The source of this bindmount (ie: the directory this bindmount will point
to).

##### <a name="-gpfs--bindmount--src_mountpoint"></a>`src_mountpoint`

Data type: `String[1]`

The mountpath of the gpfs filesystem that this bindmount depends
on

##### <a name="-gpfs--bindmount--opts"></a>`opts`

Data type: `String`

Comma separated list of mount options.

Default value: `''`

### <a name="gpfs--nativemount"></a>`gpfs::nativemount`

Represent a native gpfs filesystem mount

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
gpfs::nativemount { 'software': }

gpfs::nativemount { 'data':
    opts='ro,nosuid',
    mountpoint='/data' }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gpfs::nativemount` defined type:

* [`opts`](#-gpfs--nativemount--opts)
* [`mountpoint`](#-gpfs--nativemount--mountpoint)

##### <a name="-gpfs--nativemount--opts"></a>`opts`

Data type: `Any`

OPTIONAL - Comma separated string of additional mount options.
Defaults to 'noauto'. Note: 'noauto' will always be included in the
options (cannot be overridden).

Default value: `''`

##### <a name="-gpfs--nativemount--mountpoint"></a>`mountpoint`

Data type: `Any`

OPTIONAL - Where the filesystem is mounted at defaults to '/FSNAME', where
FSNAME is replaced with the gpfs filesystem name. Note: this must match
the mountpoint specified in the gpfs filesystem configuration (ie: mmlsfs).

Default value: `''`

